Kyiv - the Capital of Ukraine

Kyiv is the capital of Ukraine. It's one of the oldest cities of Europe. There are many places of historic interest in Kyiv. Among them there are the Kyivo-Pecherska Lavra, the Golden Gate, the St. Sophia's Cathedral and others.

Kyiv is situated on the picturesque banks of the Dnieper river. It is one of the most beautiful cities of Europe. One half of Kyiv's territory is occupied by parks and gardens. The population of Kyiv is about 3 million.

Kyiv is a large political, industrial and cultural centre. Kyiv is a seat of the higher body of state power of Ukraine, the Verkhovna Rada.

Kyiv is a scientific centre. The Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and many research institutes are here. Kyiv's cultural life is rich and varied. There are many theatres, museums, exhibitions in Kyiv.

The national art of Ukraine (paintings, sculpture and drawings) is shown in the Museum of Ukrainian Art.

Kyiv's theatres are well-known not only in our country. The famous National Opera and Ballet Theatre, the Ivan Franko Ukrainian Drama Theatre, the Lesya Ukrainka Russian Drama Theatre and other theatres are greatly appreciated by the Kyivites and the guests of the city.

The most important educational institutions of Ukraine are in Kyiv. The National Ukrainian University named after Shevchenko is in the centre of the capital. Opposite the famous red building of the University there is a fine park well-known to the Kyivites. In the centre of the park there is a nice monument to the great Ukrainian poet, whose name the University bears.

Kyiv is famous for its monuments. The monument to Prince Volodymyr in the picturesque park on the Dnieper hills has become a simbol of the ancient city.

Kyiv is the Hero-City. In the park of Immortal Glory there is an obelisk in honour of those who fell in the battles of the Second World War.

Because of many places of historical interest Kyiv is one of the most exciting cities to visit. A lot of tourists come to Kyiv. The first place, which welcomes them, is Kyiv international airport Borispol. It is built in accordance with the latest world standards.

The central street of the capital is Khreshchatyk. During the Greart Patriotic War it was almost completely destroyed. And it was rebuilt in the post war years. There are many fine buildings in Khreshchatyk. They form the unique architectural ensemble.

Kyiv is especially beautiful in spring when the famous Kyiv chestnut trees are in blossom. Kyiv, this ancient and ever young city, is the pride and glory of the Ukrainian People.
